---
layout: single
title: "The Comprehensive Guide to Navigating the EB3 Visa in the USA"
lang: en-US
ref: Guide
categories: work-in-USA
tags:
  - eb3 visa
  - eb3
  - visa
classes: wide
date: 2023-08-23 22:55:23 +0100
excerpt: The **EB3 visa** is a term that often pops up when discussing work visas in the United States.
header:
  overlay_image: https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1570460751527-6e3898082782?crop=entropy&cs=tinysrgb&fit=max&fm=jpg&ixid=M3w0Nzk0ODB8MHwxfHNlYXJjaHw1fHxlYjMlMjB2aXNhJTJDJTIwZWIzJTJDJTIwdmlzYXxlbnwwfDB8fHwxNjkyODI3NzI0fDA&ixlib=rb-4.0.3&q=80&w=1080
  overlay_filter: linear-gradient(to right bottom,rgba(60, 60, 110,0.8), rgba(178, 34, 52, 0.5))
  teaser: https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1570460751527-6e3898082782?crop=entropy&cs=tinysrgb&fit=max&fm=jpg&ixid=M3w0Nzk0ODB8MHwxfHNlYXJjaHw1fHxlYjMlMjB2aXNhJTJDJTIwZWIzJTJDJTIwdmlzYXxlbnwwfDB8fHwxNjkyODI3NzI0fDA&ixlib=rb-4.0.3&q=80&w=400
  caption: Photo by [Ben Sp](https://unsplash.com/@spoelhofmedia?utm_source=wenospeakamericano&utm_medium=referral) on [Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/?utm_source=wenospeakamericano&utm_medium=referral)
---
  
  # The Comprehensive Guide to Navigating the EB3 Visa in the USA

The **EB3 visa** is a term that often pops up when discussing work visas in the United States. This specific visa, also known as the **EB3 visa**, not only paves the way for permanent residency but also opens numerous opportunities for skilled and unskilled workers alike. This post will guide you through the ins and outs, offering a comprehensive yet comprehensible breakdown of the **EB3 visa** and its significant components. 

## What Is an EB3 Visa?

The **EB3 visa**, or Employment-Based Third Preference category visa, is a long-term work permit that allows international workers, both skilled and unskilled, with less advanced qualifications to live and work in the U.S permanently. It is a highly sought-after pathway towards obtaining a Green Card.

### Who Can Apply for an EB3 Visa?

The **EB3 visa** has three categories catering to different types of workers:

1. **Skilled Workers**: Employees with at least two years of training or work experience, not of a temporary or seasonal nature.
2. **Professionals**: Workers with a U.S bachelor’s degree or a foreign equivalent, in professions where degrees are a customary requirement.
3. **Unskilled Workers** (Other Workers): Workers capable of fulfilling unskilled labor, requiring less than two years of training or work experience to perform.

### The Application Process

Securing an **EB3 visa** requires several steps including:

1. Job Offer from a U.S employer
2. Labor certification by the Department of Labor (DOL)
3. Filing of Form I-140 by the employer with the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS)
4. Application to register for permanent residency or adjust status depending on the candidate’s location during the process.

### The Waiting Period

Visa application processes often include waiting times, and the **EB3 visa** is no exception. The length of the waiting period depends on numerous factors, such as the candidate's home country.

## Comparison: EB2 Visa VS EB3 Visa

The EB3 and EB2 categories share similarities but also significant differences. While the **EB3 visa** targets skilled, professional, and other workers, the EB2 visa is for professionals with advanced degrees or exceptional talents in arts, sciences, or business.

## Conclusion

Navigating the **EB3 visa** process may appear complex, but with the correct guidance and perseverance, it can be a stepping stone to a new life in the U.S. The key is to understand the process thoroughly, be patient with the waiting period, and be ready when the opportunity comes knocking. After all, this could be your pathway to achieving the quintessential American Dream.

Keywords: **EB3 Visa**, **EB3**, **Visa**